I think that the yes that sent that it
was his last days in Palestine when he
is to the people while going to the
place you feel that this is Apple
approaching it'll smell of their student
you smell this
so I smelled the smell of death in his
last four weeks of life nearly 50
doctors from Palestine Egypt Tunisia
Jordan and France try to save him they
test him for virtually every known
disease including some of the world's
rarest conditions but every single test
comes back negative in this exact room
Yasser Arafat dies at 3:30 in the
morning on the 11th of November 2004 and
it's been an unsolved case ever since is
this something some unusual illness of
whatever or on the other hand is it some
poison eight years ago
Arafat's medical files were handed over
to the Palestinian Authority while they
promised a full investigation little has
happened since but there was a second
copy held by his widow Sita
she agreed to give his entire medical
files to al-jazeera for this exclusive
investigation along with his x-rays in
his final possessions his clothes
medicines even his signature headscarf
and we have taken them to the best
laboratories in Europe for forensic
testing for the scientists every
fragment is rich with possibility even
his hair you can perform the analysis
even 10 years after collection al
Jazeera has undertaken a nine-month
investigation to try to
find out what killed Yasser Arafat was
it natural causes or murder if I know
that the yeah that was poison it will
close a chapter of the Enigma of this
Yasser Arafat over four decades he was
the single most important international
figure in Middle East politics the
world's best-known Arab he is the face
of Popular Resistance the one man who
drove the israeli-palestinian conflict
onto the world agenda he was the one
that invented the peace process is not
the Israelis know the Americans
he created the peace process in 1988 so
he recognized the two-state solution and
by this he unleashed the peace process
he was the only one who could have given
the two Timothy to an agreement that is
always painful that is always imperfect
but in 2000 peace talks collapse and the
Second Intifada begins
the international community
overwhelmingly pins the blame directly
on Arafat and months later Israelis
elect Ariel sharone who campaigned on
the promise to deal with Arafat harshly
negotiations come to a full stop
though some channels are left open tribe
leader of Israel Ariel Sharon told me
face-to-face my respond my reaction will
be totally different and I told them is
it different
he said I don't have it you guys know my
policy anybody is a threat to the
Israeli people I will handle him I will
remove in 2002 Israeli tanks roll into
Ramallah and destroy much of the
Palestinian Authority headquarters also
known as the nepata Yasser Arafat is now
confined to a two room apartment
surrounded by rubble outside the
pressure against him builds I call on
the Palestinian people to elect new
leaders leaders not compromised by
terror during most of my meetings here
in Paris in Israel as well as the United
States our effort was seen as the devil
he was the man who was blocking any
process towards peace there was this
idea that when Arafat will be out of the
game then everything would be easier it
was a fantasy to think that you can
reach a settlement with his successors
but regime change was exactly what
Washington and Tel Aviv had in mind
by 2003 attempts to strip Arafat of his
power and hand it over to others have
failed isolated by his enemies and
abandoned by his friends
Arafat nevertheless clings to power with
his international standing badly damaged
threats against his life went
unchallenged we will have to focus on
the murders and the those who inspire
the murders and orchestrate the
operations and if necessary to get rid
of our fat is not excluded
Sharon's political allies were not the
only ones talking tough
in 2004 he walks from an earlier pledge
he made to the United States that he
would not harm Arafat his intentions go
from private to public multi-bit shaitan
allah showed our elephant a solution in
any key body at Bacara she'll only bro a
visit benefit
it was a clear that were heading to add
serious that look which could cause our
fun his political leadership and it
could pose him his life as well
October the 12th 2004 Arafat begins
another day under Israeli siege
restricted to his quarters there was
nothing in the file all the
documentation that suggests is he that
he has anything other than perfectly
normal perfectly fine for his age that
evening four hours after eating Arafat
becomes violently ill his medical notes
record that he was feeling faint with
nausea vomiting and abdominal pain but
no fever the journey to understand what
caused Arafat's initial symptoms begins
far away from Palestine in northern
Scotland our first consulting expert is
Professor Dave Barclay a world-renowned
forensic scientist whose expertise is
solving cold cases I've been studying
all a paper that could be retrieved from
the medical records it's a really good
fun I've been going through all that
trying to look at the context trying to
work out the course of his illness the
treatments he was given and if I
possibly could what caused that illness
in the first place according to the file
the first doctor to examine Arafat was
this man Omar Dhaka his personal
physician for almost 20 years
Arafat had suffered from flu a year
before and Dhaka believed it was just a
rerun there wasn't the aggressive
management in those first few days but
the reason for that is quite obvious it
wasn't appreciated by anybody that he
was actually gravely ill on October the
17th 2004 Arafat's health gets worse the
Palestinians call in an Egyptian team
for a second opinion
but they too miss read the symptoms it
was not nothing but gastritis
inflammation of the stomach
dr. omar zakir now consult an
anesthetist in cairo was a member of the
egyptian team that treated arafat was
tape or other two days it wasn't ramadan
and we went back he was in good shape
to review Arafat's medical treatment we
take his entire file and x-rays to
switzerland home of the university
center for legal medicine professor
patrice mahjongg and his team of
forensic pathologists in toxicologists
initiate a rigorous reexamination of the
case focusing on Arafat's initial care
all these kind of investigations have to
be done of course in a modern hospital
and it's difficult for me to imagine
that it could have been done in ramallah
in the condition where president arafat
was was staying October the 20th
Arafat's blood platelet count a crucial
health indicator suddenly nosedives
he now runs a high risk of dying from
internal bleeding after one week I think
that it became urgent to to organize
such transfer that urgent transfer was
delayed instead his doctors in Ramallah
continue their guesswork they experiment
with an assortment of antibiotics and
steroids the treatments fail
these insights are now available because
of the decision reached by Arafat's
Widow to give al-jazeera all of his
medical files as well as the memories
they bring back I was calling him he
could not answer they told me that he
was sick he has flu then the third day I
could talk to him I was cutting crazy he
was so much on the phone so much nice
usually he is very formal with me
because everybody is hearing us on the
phone and he told me I love you and I
did not know that why do you why why you
say it I said no no no I love you I love
the hawa October the 26th 14 days have
now passed Arafat's platelet count drops
again his condition is now critical the
Palestinians panic they call the
Egyptians back to Ramallah and bring in
yet another medical team from Tunisia
a week later acutely almost midnight
he said we have to go now he's in very
bad shape and had to go not to see him
when they arrive Arafat is trapped in a
painful cycle of nausea vomiting and
diarrhea the Tunisians gives Suha an
update today a shooting it's not a
normal influenza
he's losing on his stomach he's not it's
all the time diarrhea this flu is not a
flu the Egyptian doctors are also
concerned they want to perform an
endoscopy a procedure to examine and
take samples from the lining of Arafat
stomach before doing so they asked the
Palestinian doctors who remain in charge
of his treatment saying we do we have
done it there is no need they did with
that we did our all all what what can be
done I mean they were treating the
subjects lightly
what happened to these crucial samples
remains a mystery unfortunately the
samples we are lost and and were never
transmitted to the laboratory
specialized in this domain October the
28th the Palestinian Authority calling
yet another team this time from Jordan
you want to escape all the
responsibilities not to be blamed for
the accusation of his death it should be
transferred to a western country
preparations begin to move Arafat to
France
it required days of bartering with the
Israelis but they finally agree that he
can go and crucially should he survive
even come back at five o clock
I heard the helicopters Jordanian even
copter still because the captors coming
around the mikata
yes it is healing this at the first time
this military helicopter is coming just
to take him and not to bump him so he
was very weak and to be trying to dress
him with the nurses was so touchy
after 17 days of failed medical
treatment his illness is now well
advanced
he has disseminated intravascular
coagulation known as di C without
discovering what triggered this
condition he will die the red blotches
may well be small bleeds into the skin
yellow may be jaundiced eyes and those
are symptoms that you would expect to
get insanity with di C di C is a
condition with many causes it presents
itself in patients suffering from a
range of cases including severe burns
snake bites even radiation exposure the
IC is a blood disorder a symptom of
something really serious happening in
the body normally your blood is flying
around the body if you get a cut the you
don't want the blood to keep on flowing
out of that so a switch is thrown and
little clots start to form at the point
of that insult where the cut is di C
means that that switch is being thrown
all over the body at the same time and
you're getting lots of little clots
going round the body the blood gets out
of kilter with itself it almost starts
eating itself October the 29th Arafat
arrives at the Persie military hospital
he is taken straight to the hematology
ward the file thoroughly describes what
the French did next the way they treated
it was exactly right and in this case
they needed to stop the little blood
cuts getting worse and they used heparin
to do that which was correct they needed
to give plasma and blood clotting agents
through blood transfusion and that's
exactly what they did as well October
the 30th Arafat responds well to
treatment he stops vomiting his nausea
and diarrhea are gone he's even able to
hold down some food
the French run dozens of tests using
some of the world's most sophisticated
medical diagnostic equipment but
according to their own records
they never uncover what's causing the D
I see the French do not address the
possibility that poison might be
involved until four days after Arafat
arrives they ordered tests but it's
already been a full three weeks since
the start of his symptoms why we before
collecting the blood urine and stools
for the for the toxicology if some
poisoning had to be suspected of course
the samples have to be collected very
very rapidly and without any delay
November the third Arafat suddenly
relapses and begins the last and final
phase of his unexplained condition he
wanted to go out of the bed and he was
screaming and I just please yes sir calm
down calm down calm down calm down and I
start on the floor I put my hands on him
and he was crying I'm not knowing me I
yes you drink why he was looking just
not talking
looking at me youth why have you got
here
and then he lapses into a coma and it's
a serious calm and neither I nor any of
the doctors that Percy had the faintest
idea why that happened there is no
recovery and he will never speak again
as the hospital shifts into the
intensive care unit
zoo-oo clings to hope at her request the
French agree to play Arafat's favorite
Quran recitation throughout the war
when yes had heard the Quran I was
looking at his hand and he would Nick
like this or he would say I call the
doctor come come he he had a sign on his
I said and also hi this is a
neurological sign it's normal like this
don't don't get so much excited you know
November the fourth news of Arafat's
coma is leaked the leadership of the
Palestinian Authority now believe
Arafat's death is a matter of days his
wife suha believes they're plotting to
seize power and calls out jazeera acting
Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas and his
delegation are received as the
presumptive new leadership back at Percy
hospital the staff become more concerned
about the involvement of poison while he
lay deep in a coma
they take numerous samples of his blood
urine and stool which they provide in
great secrecy to the French national
police and military radiological
detection labs under aliases the samples
are analyzed for everything ranging from
arsenic to cocaine the name Etienne
novae and Frederick multiple are both
nicknames for yesterday fat's in the
hospital they use this name to protect
the analysis and prevent any leaking of
any energy
on November the 8th doctors initiate a
limited test for radioactive poisons
measuring gamma activity only tests on
almost a leader of his urine come back
negative but there were further
radiological tests they did not perform
particularly for rare nuclear materials
the CT scan that have been done on the
9th of November is really abnormal
because as you can see there are a lot
of hemorrhages in the brain the brain
stem and in the van secured of the of
the brain and here these different
things in it why is the presence of
blood in in the brain on November the
11th 2004 after four weeks clinging to
life
Arafat loses the battle
though he dies of a massive brain
hemorrhage the mystery remains
what is the original event that drives
his illness the most logical way to
answer that would have been through an
autopsy which in suspicious cases like
this are routine if not mandatory but
the atmosphere in France is charged
as Arafat's body leaves for its long
journey home discussions over where his
state funeral should be and who will
assume his powers drown out any serious
talk about having a post-mortem I did
not ask for an autopsy it did not even
occur to me to ask for other Topsy
you know when you are under the shock
nothing occurs to you after a long
procession that included a stop in Egypt
Arafat's body is taken for final burial
in Ramallah even in death the
controversy over what killed Arafat
remains very much alive intense
speculation over the years has focused
on several theories all of them
unfounded the most stubborn myth is that
he died of AIDS he didn't have AIDS they
did two HIV tests both of which were
negative
these French tests confirm the results
of dr. tewfiq Chabon who was part of the
Tunisian team treating Arafat in
Ramallah it is my speciality
HIV hi Cheney is my speech any way
they're born i mccauley motion has a
higher value
I'll hav gosh the things that we know he
wasn't suffering from include most of
the popular choices at the time he
wasn't suffering from leukemia in fact
his bone marrow seemed to be all right
right to the very end there was no liver
cirrhosis no traces of cancer no
positive results it's it's not really in
favor of infectious disease it is a pity
that a post mortem has not be ordered
immediately after the death we would
have ensured that we kept large
quantities of the liver and we would
have kept the hair and the nails and
analyzed them we asked French officials
whether this was done and if not why not
Michelle Ali Oh Mellie was defense
minister in 2004 in charge of the
military as well as its hospitals I
Maconie salsa yabba-doo credit Masanga
miss Watkin selfie a prelude is a person
sue Syria impossible see what we would
eat for ferry manatees a Paris if you
were a family to us you are fat we do
just that
an ask miss Arafat whether she has any
of her late husband's belongings that
might yield forensic Clues this is the
back that thirsty hospital gave me after
my husband died I kept it safely and it
contains all the personal belongings of
my husband from his hat that you were in
the hospital to his underworld maybe
with your scientists you can reveal the
truth about is this after mining through
the bag
the doctors discover enough hair to
perform new tests we will have enough
simple to try analyze and to look for
different systems but even more
promising they identify stains that are
later determined to be Arafat's blood
and urine using the most advanced
technologies available they will spend
the next several months trying to crack
the mystery of what killed Yasser Arafat
nearly nine years have passed since the
suspicious death of Yasser Arafat
doctors still do not know what caused
his death there was no autopsy and in
2012 our best hope of a breakthrough may
be hiding inside this bag al Jazeera has
ordered a forensic examination of
Arafat's last personal effects and the
clothing he wore in his final days
the Swiss began a painstaking process to
uncover what may have killed Arafat if
you wanted to get rid of Yasser Arafat
you would use something undetectable
something that will be very difficult to
find how easy it would it be to get a
poison into Gaza - or anybody else it
would be child's play a tiny amount is
necessary to kill you but that's
distributed over the whole of the body
including the hair the Swiss scientists
begin testing samples discovered in
Arafat's headwear and garments the
benefit of hair is that as the hair
grows it lays down drugs and poisons in
the shaft of the hair so if I die the
same day of a poison the only place that
poison will be is in the root of the
head but if I was poisoned a week
earlier it's going to be a centimeter up
from the root of the hair the first task
to ensure the hair is actually asar
Arafat's for this the Institute's chief
of toxicology dr. mark Augsburg orders
tests on DNA samples taken from Arafat's
widow at 17 year old daughters our weeks
later there is no uncertainty well sure
that it's yes Aaron Arafat's has because
we perform DNA analysis - still the
scientists are limited to what could be
recovered only 23 milligrams of hair a
tiny amount it's enough for just one
toxicology screening with no opportunity
for follow-up the results come back from
arsenic to zinc no presence of heavy
metal toxins but there's a qualified
finding we have no idea about the date
of the transfer
of the hair from the scalp to the hats
it could be before the 12 October or
after having ruled out obvious poisons
we asked the Swiss to consider less
conventional ones after we obtained the
results we decided to send those samples
to our colleague in a radiological
Institute to look at other elements like
polonium polonium when Arafat fell ill
in 2004 no doctor would have suspected
its use as a poison but two years later
Alexander Litvinenko a former Russian
spy
turned dissident died a lingering death
in a London hospital
scientists later established that he
ingested polonium given to him by
attackers at this London restaurant
the only other methods to deliver this
radioactive substance would be through
injection or inhalation a lethal dosage
is not even visible to the naked eye so
after a month of testing at the
Institute of radiation physics the
scientists are astounded by what they
find
high levels of polonium in Arafat's
toothbrush as well as three samples from
his clothes a urine stain in his
underwear a blood stain from his
hospital cap that he wore as he died
even the sweat stain collar from his
tracksuit polonium does exist in nature
in very low levels formed when
radioactive lead decays so the Swiss
want to know if this is natural polonium
what's called supported polonium or is
it the unsupported version which can
only come from a nuclear reactor they
examine additional samples from the same
bag
items that had been visibly warned
contained significantly higher polonium
levels than those that had not this
suggests the polonium is coming from
contact with Arafat's bodily fluids
rather than the fabric we caught up with
the lead scientist at the Geneva Airport
to learn the preliminary results we
found that there was a higher value of
polonium than what we were expecting but
again we have to to be sure that this is
higher value is natural or not natural
it's it's not sufficient to to see a
higher value to conclude that it is not
natural for this dr. bow shoots team
needs three months if the polonium found
in air fat samples stay the same this
would mean it's natural polonium
supported by the decay of lead but if
the polonium levels decrease that would
confirm that they are artificial or
unsupported meaning air fat was exposed
to polonium made in a nuclear reactor we
know that at the time when Arafat was at
the hospital they did make some
measurement of several liters of urine
and we saw the result of the of the
measurement they were all negative but
they did not search polonium as such so
what we need is to have access on this
urine sample professor mol John and his
team agree they asked if al-jazeera
would approach miss arafat the only
person eligible under French law to
request the frozen vials of blood and
urine which they expected the
authorities to have kept
our lawyer in Paris David Mayo prepares
the detailed applications to ensure they
don't get lost
miss arafat sets out on a journey she
has not made since 2004
that I was doing every time that I
wanted to go to the hospital you know
it reminds me all the
mmm lettuce all of the Batmen motives
on the way to the hospital her daughters
our phones my mama now I'm on my way to
the hospital where Papa died that one
and you know that I'm going with Clayton
and we told you about it already and I'm
going to ask about the sentence and
about the blood samples Angelyn to know
more the truth about Papa okay what do
you think what do you think I shall do
it with her family strongly behind her
in a secret camera to witness the
handover miss arafat delivers a letter
straight to the Percy Hospital mail room
while we wait for a reply we start a new
line of inquiry to track down the
medical professionals here at Percy who
treated Yasser Arafat in case they have
any evidence not recorded in the
official files to do this we obtain miss
Arafat's written permission to ask
questions on her behalf there are more
than 30 we need to find and they do not
want to talk
okay do you have another phone number
professor de Revell doctor vest this is
becoming a typical outcome despite
receiving the letter from Madame arafat
that expressly permits us to discuss her
late husband's care and treatment by
these doctors they're all saying it's
impossible because of medical secrecy we
decide to become more assertive if they
won't talk to us we'll go and talk with
them we head to this hospital in Paris
and locate Professor Francois briquette
chief of infectious diseases her care
was one of a handful of civilian doctors
the French military brought to Persie
when they were running out of ideas he
declines our calls and emails but we
approached him anyway and suggest you
speak directly with miss arafat also on
the list is dr. jean charles Piett
another one of france's most
distinguished infectious disease experts
we spend an hour together and his
interest in knowledge about the case is
obvious but he will not give an
interview unless professor bruh care
agrees to as well while a meeting
between those two doctors in this arafat
is under consideration a letter comes
from the French military police
it was their labs that ran multiple
tests on Arafat's blood and urine so
they should have the samples she asks us
to be present as she opens the letter
say that they are incapable to give us
any kind of blood or urine samples
because they have been destroyed in the
year of 2008 because nobody act and they
destroyed it
given Arafat's unexplained death it
seems like an odd decision to destroy
his biological samples after just four
years under French criminal code labs
are required to keep the samples up to
ten years but then again there was never
any criminal investigation into Arafat's
death so it's a dead end we will not be
able to give the Swiss lab any
additional quantities of Arafat's blood
or urine to test for polonium meanwhile
the meeting we've arranged for this
arafat begins the French doctors refused
to allow us to be present these doctors
told me that the ester had nothing that
they searched every single illness in
the acid and they told me they did not
find anything anything I think I was
asking them do they think that it's
poison they told me we can't remove this
thinking we can't remove this aspect he
might be poisoned but we don't know with
the French doctors yielding little in
France we start to look elsewhere for
leads the doctors that treated him
initially from Tunisia and Egypt are
really key witnesses for you you'd need
to check through every physical thing
they did to me we asked miss Arafat to
identify the Arab doctors
here when all the doctors came and these
are the Egyptian doctors Houdini the
Egyptian doctors were telling me that
they think that he was poisoned they
felt that there is something wrong in
this doctor had that see the Tunisian
doctor who came with us to the hospital
that doctor right there yes on the right
oh that is dr. Hatake yes he think that
he thinks that yes that was poisoned
our first stop post-revolution Tunisia
with a dictatorship removed our team
arrives with optimism there will be
fewer obstacles but as we begin on the
periphery and approach members of the
original Arafat medical team getting key
details is harder than expected from the
Hoffman family still better to be here
who are you should have eyelashes that
person dr. Faisal Han Tati to contact us
anytime at the very least move in 30
through emails phone calls and finally a
personal visit to this neurological
clinic where he works
dr. Faisal him Tati begs our producer
daddy - me me - stop asking him
questions according to miss Arafat it
was dr. Han Totti who insisted that her
husband had been poisoned the only
Tunisian doctor willing to offer useful
insights was dr. Chabon an HIV expert
who categorically ruled out AIDS as a
cause of Arafat's death
so l le limit the Biennale
can be M Ken Palestine Rock Technic beat
Ajith be live but amazing I should walk
we don't have to go to Palestine to ask
that question as it turns out Arafat's
personal physician the doctor who was
with him from the onset of illness until
his death in France is living right here
in Tunis the PLO has since promoted Omar
dhaka as their deputy ambassador to
tunisia after declining our interview
requests we head to their embassy energy
miss Jazeera with him in worship
toughest ill lucemon in a cynical
unsatisfied with that answer we go
inside the embassy to pay him a visit we
plead with dr dhaka to change his mind
and provide as his testimony
so we've just left the office of dr.
omar dhaka
he was very uncomfortable that we were
there he said there's no chance he's
going to give an interview despite him
being with arafat the entire time he was
sick until death he said this is not a
medical issue it's a political one
we arrived in Egypt another Arab country
in transition Suha arafat had told us
the lead Egyptian doctor had believed
her husband was poisoned we asked dr.
zakir for more details refer to report
to former the president of the
intelligence omar suleiman
as a part of routine I mean a team went
there you should report to to his Chiefs
hoping to get that report we visit the
offices of dr. Ibrahim Mustafa the lead
physician from the Egyptian medical team
so we just come back from the office of
dr. ibrahim mustafa he's the one who
told the former first lady his belief
that Nasser
family's poison it's not available but
we're just gonna have to come back he's
way too important we need to find out
what he has to say when we later return
to dr. Mustafa
he takes my name and quickly has its
lead he later calls us to explain that
the Egyptian military has ordered his
silence most of the doctors appeared too
fearful to talk were we unreasonable to
be asking questions about Arafat perhaps
being poisoned his most obvious enemy
Israel has tried before to assassinate a
Palestinian leader with a different
undetectable poison yes Arafat is
somebody who is in a very strong
political position who has lots of
enemies among the factors that you're
taking into account thinking he might be
poisoned and so on is what we call
previous criminality in 1997 Israel's
foreign intelligence service known as
Mossad targeted this man the political
leader of the Hamas party then living in
the Jordanian capital Mossad sent
somebody in the
in among on the street in midday to
inject a liquid to solid Marshall
assuming that this will kill him it did
not because of the vigilance of his
bodyguards they captured the would-be
assassins a valuable bargaining chip
that forced Israel to provide the
antidote to save his life done in cash
effective jurema LAN
Marathi P I'm Tsukuba you said it is
right Veronica
Rohan with a lil a lot o hotel israelian
the healthiest outfit
let me open it somewhat Delisle met
during kind of karate general and that's
really what our little STL listen if you
give me proof I will believe it but you
need to work hard to get such a pro the
best evidence we have is the material
being tested at the Institute for
radiation physics for three months
professor bow shoots team has been
working to establish whether the
polonium and Arafat's belongings is what
scientists call supported that is
naturally occurring or unsupported
meaning it was made in a nuclear lab
okay so here is the bag of Mr O'Hara pet
and well as you can see there are many
many things inside here you have for
instance his hospital hat this is the
hat he was wearing according to his wife
until his last days and did contain a
small blood stain that we did actually
cut an and measure and we had an
elevated value on pollen you mean this
this thing if we look here we can find
actually the the toothbrushes which we
we cut the the bristles and found that
the quantity of polonium was
significantly higher than what we were
expecting as you can see this toothbrush
was kept in this in this box and also in
the in the bag so it's hard to imagine
that pollyana has been added up
afterward by natural ways in what
percentage from the values in the
toothbrush were from unsupported Claudia
because the breed the majority more than
sixty percent of that was unsupported
this is the the underwear that it
contained the urine stain that actually
had the highest value of of polonium
that was at the end of our measurement
unsupported Paula knew in large quantity
what we have here also is actually the
hat he was wearing when he left Ramallah
it was in a much better state when we
received it but we took several samples
different locations and the conclusion
was that we did find some some
significant polonium that was present in
this sample well all those samples were
were belongings from mr. Arafat that
were containing visible biological
States mean there they have been used
and we knew that he was wearing this dis
clothing at the hospital so we we did
measurements on these particular stains
this level were substantial they were
significantly different which shows that
there is an abnormal not normal quantity
of paulownia but you found unsupported
polonium in these specific items yes we
did we did find somewhere and not
supported polonium in these in these
samples significant levels of
unsupported polonium made in a
laboratory exactly the variety that
killed Litvinenko we asked professor
beau shewed that if arafat had been
given the same dosages Litvinenko what
levels of polonium they could expect to
find in his samples after eight years
it's a simple equation because polonium
decays by half every 138 days yes if we
take the scenario of mr. Lewin anko one
Giga barrel at the beginning would would
come to about 10 milli back row and what
was astonishing in our case was that we
found values and in the samples of mr.
Arafat that were in the same order of
magnitude
we were surprised yes one of my
colleagues he called me on the phone and
told me well I think you gotta go up in
the lab and we had something to show you
the first measurement we did was
actually just a routine measurement just
cool just to make a check and we thought
there there isn't definitely no chance
to find anybody human in these samples
so who would have access to this kind of
plenum unsupportive cloning if you want
to have access to this kind of highly
strategic element you need to have a
good connection with with people who are
maybe interested in or building nuclear
nuclear weapons for instance every
country that has a nuclear reactor even
even a civil nuclear reactor you you can
produce polonium-210 so it is it is
possible what makes polonium a
sophisticated choice of poison is the
fact that with so few known cases
doctors are still uncertain about its
specific symptoms if we put together all
the information that we have analytical
findings clinical features circumstance
of the death of mr. Arafat it's
difficult to conclude I don't want to
make too much speculation but I think
that we have at this stage where would
be of course mandatory to go further and
to try to
make more investigation if it's possible
the answer may lie beneath Arafat's
mausoleum in Ramallah currently being
renovated I would say that if I take a
bone randomly in a cemetery the
probability of measuring pollen M would
be almost zero in this case if I had to
give a probability L will
I would say right now with the
measurements we did it will be maybe
about 50 percent something like this so
it's definitely not 99 percent but it's
above 50 percent and I think the the
only way now if she really wants to know
what's hot what happened to to her
husband is to manage to find a sample
that I mean an exhumation from from mr.
Arafat that would provide us with a
sample that should have a very high
quantity of polonium if before if he
were poisoned but we have we have to do
it quite fast because polonium is
decaying so if we wait too long for sure
any possible proof will disappear for
the first time miss arafat sees the
results so ah miss Arafat what do you
want to do next I think that I want to
ask to exhume the body of my husband
immediately because the doctors say that
we don't have enough time you know
longer we don't do it the longer that
the truths of any polonium substance sir
will disappear I think this is my
responsibility as a mother as a wife and
as a partner of this great man for 20
years and this is my message to the
Palestinian Authority that they have to
cooperate because the brave and the tomb
of ESA is in Ramallah after all what we
have discovered with the most credible
doctors in the whole world
we have to go further step to exhume yes
era Arafat
buddy to reveal the truth to all the
Arab and Muslim world